let's talk a little bit more about
time-lapse flicker now flickr occurs
when one or many shots in a time-lapse
sequence are either underexposed or
overexposed and what happens is you get
a bright frame or a dark frame or a
series of bright and dark frames and it
really disrupts the the time-lapse
sequence so there's a couple different
reasons why this occurs and as a few
different ways that we can combat it
when we are recording a time-lapse
sequence now the most common source of
flicker can be traced to automatic
setting is when you are exposing your
time-lapse images since the camera is
making an independent decision for each
and every time lapse shot it will
invariably make a different decision and
thus expose one frame or or several
frames differently the easiest way to
fix that is to shoot in full manual mode
and also to select the manual ISO
setting and a manual white balance
setting
now going one step beyond manual mode
the second way to combat flicker is to
actually make your camera think that you
have a manual lens here's why that
matters now even in full manual mode
with a set aperture every time your
camera takes a photograph it moves the
aperture to wide open before dialing it
back to your desired setting so each
time that happens there's a chance for
small mechanical inconsistencies to make
a change between one exposure and
another now there's couple ways that you
can minimize this from taking place
first thing you can do is shoot at the
lowest f-stop possible wider apertures
result in less exposure variation
because there's less movement that needs
to take place now this usually isn't our
best option because at a wide aperture
or sometimes required to shoot at fast
shutter speeds which also induce a
little bit of flicker also most lenses
produce their best quality at something
other than the widest aperture now you
can eliminate aperture flicker
altogether by either using a manual lens
or tricking your camera into thinking
that your automatic lens is a manual
lens now here's how the lens twist trick
works set your camera down lens up press
and hold the depth-of-field button to
dial in the aperture setting that you've
selected then with the same hand press
and hold the lens release button then
slightly rotate the lens to disengage
the electrical contacts from the camera
body your lens is now blocked at that
set aperture and will not change
throughout the sequence of time-lapse
exposures now take a quick test photo to
make sure everything is working normally
and make sure before you dismount the
camera from the tripod and put it your
bag that you reattach that lens friendly
now similar inconsistencies do affect
the camera shutter but they usually only
visible if you're shooting it very fast
shutter speeds as long as we stay below
1/100 of a second we should be good now
depending on your scene sometimes you
want the camera to automatically change
exposure as the light changes in our
scene this is half dome at Yosemite
National Park in California amazing
place and if you ever get the chance to
head out there I definitely recommend it
now I wanted to expose the peak as the
Sun would set so I needed to place my
camera in aperture priority mode that
have the shutter speed change as the
light change in scene now this
introduced a lot of flicker so what I
did is I ran the compilation through D
flickering software as you can see it's
a lot less noticeable there's a little
bit fluctuations in there but certainly
not nearly as severe as it was
so we can utilize priority mode shooting
for those scenes where the light does
change we just have to be aware that
we're going to experience more flicker
in our compilations now this is mainly
because cameras just really aren't
programmed to allow for small gradual
changes and when an image changes
slightly right on the edge of a an
f-stop setting what you get is jumps
back and forth and that's where the
flickering software comes in basically
that's an application or or plugin that
takes all your sequence images and
analyzes them in relation to the the
ones right next to it and detects any
kind of abrupt changes in luminance it
then kind of smooths out the entire
sequence now there are several different
key flickering solutions out there some
are free some cost money some are
standalone applications and some are
plugins to be used with other programs
such as Adobe After Effects or Adobe
Premiere each has a different strong
point in weak point we're going to dig
deep into each one of these in separate
tutorial videos to help you make a
decision with what might be best for you
another way to eliminate flicker in a
dynamic scene utilizes an external
device to basically feed our camera
small gradual exposure changes over time
since these changes are small and very
gradual there aren't any big jumps
there's very little if any flicker and
we'll be talking more about bulb ramping
in a separate tutorial so that's it for
this tutorial I hope you have a better
understanding of time-lapse flicker
where it comes from and some things that
you can do to minimize it I hope this
was helpful and thanks for watching